All right, so let's get to flipping
this caption elements over here.
Because we have the parent elements,
at least through the use of
the background pseudo elements
smoothly translating from its first
position to its last position, but
not this inner elements over here.
So when we look at the code,
this is the final code.
So when we look at this code, we see
that we're doing this specifically for
the first rectangle.
So specifically what we're doing is,
we're getting the first rectangle,
we're doing something
that changes the layout.
So I'll just label this.
This is our first, well, do something, and
then we're getting
the last rectangle here,
and then, we are inverting it.
So we're doing the inversion over here,
and then we're doing the play.
So we have all steps of
flip over here first,
last invert play but
specific to this figure.
And now we wanna do it for the caption.
The easiest thing to do would be
to replace a figure L with caption
L over here, but we're developers so
maybe we could find a better,
more abstracted way to do this.
And so I am going to actually
make a function here called flip.
And so
we're gonna provide it a couple of things.
We're going to give it our function and so
this is a function that we want to
call when we're doing something.
And so, I want the first rectangles or
the first elements rather.
And so, I'm gonna call this first Els and
the last elements
which by defaults are going to
be equal to the first elements.
Okay, so now we are going to grab, so
basically we're doing this
flip technique in batch.
So we're going to grab the first
rectangles from each of the first
elements.
So firstEls.map el and this is going to
be el.getBoundingclients rectangle.
And then, so
that's our first step over here.
Then we're gonna do something, and
so this is our function over here.
That's our do something step, and then
we're going to request animation frame.
And we're gonna start getting our last
elements, sorry, our last rectangles.
So const lastRects = lastEls
same thing.map el return
el.getbaundingclientrect.
Okay, so now for each one of these
racks we are going to calculate
the difference between all
the deltas that we have over here.
In fact, I could pretty much copy and
paste all of this.
So I'm just going to do this, And
then lastRects.forEach and
we're going to get the lastRect and
the index of that Rects because we
do need the first rectangle as well.
Equals firstRects I.
And then we're going to
calculate the inversion
between the first rectangle and
the last one.
And then we're gonna get
the elements as well.
So const lastEL= lastELs, I.
LastEl.
Okay, so we have the first Rect,
we have the last Rect we're
calculating the delta x, y, width and
height from each of the rectangles.
And then, we invert them.
And after doing all that, We're going
to request animation frame again,
and for each of the elements so
last Els.forEach.
We are going to set the flip to play,
so lastEl.data set.flip =play.
And so
now instead of duplicating this logic for
both of these elements,
all we have to do is,
where we gonna do this on click,
or we going to flip.
And we going pass in
our function over here.
This is what's going to
cause the layout change, and
then we going pass the elements
that we wants to flip.
So, that's going to be the figureEL and
the captionEI.
So figureEL captionEl.
Now remember by defaults the last elements
are going to be exactly the same,
so we don't need to specify that.
Okay, so let's hope that this works.
Now when we click here, Let's take a look.
Okay we could see that this fig
caption which is our caption elements,
it is getting all of these attributes.
It's getting the CSS variables,
it's getting the data attribute.
So now we have to jump into our CSS and
actually animate it.
So, Because we're
not animating the before
of the previous one.
Sorry, we're not animating
the before of the caption,
whereas we are doing it
to the previous one.
There's [LAUGH] a little bit of nasty
styling that we have to do over here.
And so what I have over here is another
data attribute called data-flip-bg.
And so
data-flip-bg what that's going to do,
is it's going to say whichever
elements have this data-flip-bg,
like over here, these are the ones
where I want the background to flip.
And for the other ones, I just want you to
flip the actual elements instead
of the background pseudo elements.
So I know that was a mouthful, but
we'll see how it works when
we actually inspect it.
So I'm gonna remove this and
now we're gonna play.
So now you could see and
I'm gonna slow down the animation
over here as well to 25%.
That we are flipping both
the parents elements, so
that background elements,
and the child elements.
And there's no skewing or
stretching or morphing taking place
over here because we're in
meaning to separate elements.
And so what's great about this is
that you could individually control
the different animation properties or
transition properties of each element.
So, for example,
with a ui-caption over here,
we could say that this should
be transition I don't know,
transition-duration, let's
say an entire second.
So now, Interesting, hold on.
Okay, so the reason that this isn't
working right now is because we are doing
a bunch of transitions over here and,
This might be overriding it.
Let me just double check real quick.
Yeah, so this is going to overwrite
that transition-duration.
So let's just, we put that as important.
This is why specificity is interesting.
All right so,
let's get rid of that for now.
And so now it's working together.
So the solution over here is that
you could specify individual
transition properties for each one.
So we could say that the transition over
here should be transform at 0.3 seconds,
you could also just give
the individual properties.
And even use CSS variables to say, hey,
we just want to pull this from some CSS
variable instead of just overwriting it.
So actually, this is a real problem
that we're running into right now.
And this is actually a really good
opportunity to show you how CSS variables
actually solve this problem.
So instead of saying
transition-transform 0.3 seconds,
we could just say transition-transform and
give it a duration with
a default of 0.3 seconds.
And so now what we could do in that
ui-caption is give the duration over here,
of let's just say 1 second and
so hopefully this works.
Okay, so now you could see that
the duration between these two elements is
completely different.
And so this gives you some
creative possibilities.
Because now that each of these
elements are individual,
you could control the transition
between each of them.
You could give them different easings,
different timings, do different
properties, and things like that even
different delays if you wants to.
So this is actually pretty fun.
So one of the questions in the chat was,
for
flip to work can we say we need a function
that will result in painting the node?
We call that function and
then in the next animation frame get
the bounding rectangle for
the new position.
[COUGH] I'm not sure that I
understand the question fully,
I think the question is more around
that function that we call over here.
So this, Function
that we're setting up that dataset states,
what should that do?
So basically, this is the function
that causes layouts to change.
So, for example, if we're adding a class,
removing a class, adding a data attribute,
doing something where it's going to affect
the position of different elements,
that's the kind of function
we want over here.
Otherwise, the flip technique
doesn't really make any sense,
because you're not capturing the exact
moment in time where you could
figure out what the first rectangle is,
and what the last rectangle is.
So, yeah,
hopefully that answers that question.
And the second question in flip,
notice in the first position and
then we painted to a new position,
immediately inverted back to the first
position using translate and scale.
And then we played the animation
to the new position again.
And because of this, we must use
backwards and animation fill mode,
did I get it right?
So the great thing about the flip
technique is it actually does not
use keyframes, it doesn't use animation.
Instead, because from our previous
lesson where we talked about
transitioning between states,
this is doing exactly that.
But this time, the states are the ones
that we defined here which is the invert
state, and the play state.
And we're using CSS transitions to make it
rubberband back to its original position.
There was another question.
What will happen if there
are other elements around this?
And so what's going to happen
is pretty much nothing.
And so the reason why is because
this does not affect layouts.
So when we animate this,
all we're doing is transforming.
So we're doing, yeah, we're doing
a transform, and we're doing a scale.
And so all of that is on the GPU.
And again, these are the most
performant animations you could do,
because it's not going to affect layouts.
So in the comments, got it,
no animation and flip.
But but we do paint it to a new position
immediately inverted back to the first
position, by translate and scale, right?
And yes, that's exactly right.
So does everyone sort of understand
what's going on with flip?
Okay, so that was a lot.
Flip is a little complicated but
it is a technique that you could use to
get these really smooth layout animations.
And so the best part is for pretty
much most of the animations where you
might want to use flip,
just copy and paste this.
Go back to the workshop, copy and
paste the code, and just use it wherever.
In fact, it could be one file, just flip,
do this, here's my first elements.
Here's my last ones, make it go smooth.
So you just have to copy this, and
the resulting CSS which is these ten or
so lines.